Please, to have you here, watching a committee at the United States Senate working on public
business.
I want to admonish our audience because I have all previous audiences that we have a
standing rule of the committee, however, that there are, there can be no other role
manifestations of approval or disapproval of any kind or any type at any time.
The officers in the room and the plain policemen scattered out to the audience as a standing
order from the committee to escort the likely-from-the-committee room immediately, any of our guests
violating the rules under which you enter the room.
When you came, you agreed to behave like ladies and gentlemen until we've trained
the moral manifestations of approval or disapproval.
Our audiences have been magnificent up to this point.
As we concluded, yesterday afternoon Mr. Tom Kuat, the Memphis Assistant Council of the
Committee, was interrogating General Ryan of quite this, and the interrogation will continue
at this time by Mr. Kuat.
Of course, I have a point, seven point of order, I'm just a point of the inquiry or maybe
a point of the newsman.
The chair of the committee on government operations, we're charged with the responsibility of
checking into the unnecessary expenditures, and I wish one of the first things the Council
would do is find out how much money has been spent for these little picture checks that
are put out to all the press.
Telling friends, I wouldn't have shined all these girlfriends.
I don't see any in here about shining issues, if anybody's stuck up.
I've had a good number of calls from my friends in the Pentagon telling me that this is the
most ridiculous thing that ever seemed to them, the most wasteful.
I would like to have Council, if you would, go into the expense next to this, to offer
as an excuse.
I would like to avoid having grabbed the general any questions myself, but I don't know
General Ryan can answer these, but it's a rather fantastic little game that seems to
somebody who's playing in rather expensive to the taxpayer.
I would suggest that there's nothing which can be covered by the committee on government
operations that we should consider to do from Wisconsin, his chairman.
He looks in the government, he's under two, and if he deals with the president, I wish
the public funds, certainly.
He has the authority of chairman to make a proper investigation after you've put plenty
of time.
One final remarks.
I know that the committee have charged some shines only of girlfriends, that sort of thing.
I wonder if any charge funds we signed these two, or do we have a check on that?
Ah, Mr. Poole.
General Ryan, have you caused to be made a chart for reflecting your records of absences
and telephone messages to court dicks concerning private, gee David Chin?
This is the first time that I have seen that chart, but I understand that this was made
by the council for the office.
Can you identify that chart as being an accurate reflection of cash issues when it filed
a churn while he was at court dicks?
I haven't had an opportunity to study distance in detail, but this replica that I have in
my hand looks to me to be a reproduction of the larger chart.
And from a quick observation, it looks as though it is a true recording of the period
during which private churn was absent for four things.
And that chart reflects non-only passes or absences, but also telephone messages to
yourself.
It reflects some of the telephone messages that were made.
Will you file that as an exhibit for your testimony?
Yes.
Do you also have, General, a chart reflecting typical authorized absences of an average trainee
at four takes?
I have a chart that has just been handed to me, as I've never seen before, and indicate
typical authorized absences of an average trainee.
I know what the typical absences are.
Will you look at the chart and tell us if it accurately reflects the typical authorized
absences of an average trainee?
Yes, I should say that.
Will you file that as an exhibit for your testimony?
Yes, General, I would like to call your attention to the events of November 17, 1953.
And I'll ask you if you recall seeing Senator McCartney and Secretary Stevens at the
Maguire Air Force Base on that base.
Yes, I do.
But was private churn in attendance at the base on that occasion?
Yes, he was.
Will you tell us the circumstances leading up to that meeting as briefly as possible?
I received a telephone call from one of Secretary Stevens' aid during the day, indicating that
the Secretary and the Senator derive its Maguire Air Force Base at about 5.30 in the afternoon.
And the Secretary desired that arrangements be made for a plan to fly Senator McCartney to
Boston, where he had a speaking engagement at even.
He indicated that he didn't plan to spend very long time at Maguire Air Force Base.
And he also indicated that private churns can be present for the purpose of conferring with Senator McCartney.
About what time did the plane arrive?
The plane arrived at approximately 5.30 between 5.30 and 5.45, I should say.
We recall approximately how long Secretary Stevens was there for.
Secretary Stevens stayed on the ground, I should say, between 5 and 10 minutes.
Or any photographs taken at that time?
Yes, so there were several photographs taken.
And do you recall the taking of a photograph of Secretary Stevens' private churn and some other persons?
I don't recall that particular one.
There were four or five flashes indicating that the pictures were being taken.
And that particular picture doesn't stand out in my mind.
Stayed if you remember or know, other or not Secretary Stevens requested a he-be photograph on the education.
When the Secretary left the plane, I reported to him and I stayed with him all the time that he was on the ground.
And in my presence, he did not request any photographs with private churns.
Oh, were you in here as Secretary in here as Secretary during the total time?
Yes, I stayed with the Secretary all the time that he was there.
I reported to him just as soon as he got off the plane and I wasn't there very far from him at any time.
So you know where a private churn and a sentence to a coffee with a poster, please?
A photo-gletting, it's been known, no, I do not.
The gentleman you stated on yesterday that on December 8th, you terminated the weekday privilege, his best privilege in the private churn.
Tell us why that was done.
It's our duty in Fort Six to see that these those different trains for combat.
The training is rigorous, it's made tough intentionally, and they work hard from early morning until late at night.
And a man cannot dwarf the post in the evening until 11 at 12 o'clock at night, night after night and still do the work that he's supposed to do.
I was especially concerned because in private churns he had been absent from the post, six of the preceding seven nights.
And I felt as if I had duty to this young man to his parents and the men that served with him and their parents to see that private churn had proper evidence in order to carry on this rigorous training that we have at Fort Six.
And also to be complete possession of his faculty.
He was handling the munitions, the rifles, carvings, the nails, the other articles of war, in which he was being trained.
And I was concerned about the possibility of an accident in which private churn might be killed possibly, if some other training might be killed.
And for that reason I summoned private churn to my office and told him that he would not be permitted to have any more evening passes to leave the post.
And I explained in detail why I was taking that action. And the explanation I gave to him is the same that I as the one I gave to you.
I told him I didn't know who drafted him, but he was in the army and it was my job to train him. And he was going to carry out the rules of Fort Six the same as any other call.
I told him that it wouldn't do any good for him to ask for any more evening passes because he wasn't going to get it.
I also told him to inform the committee staff not to call me because the answer was no. And from that day forward none of the committee staff ever called me and asked for an evening pass private churn.
General won a favor if he needs to be the emphasis of private churn here on his training.
Private churn's absence is not in the fair with his training. He applied himself very well during the training period.
And his company commanded him superior when he left the post in training. That placed him in the high 20% of his company.
Would your answer be the same with respect to the telephone call which private churn received following with the Fort Decks?
Any telephone calls which private churn received in Fort Decks which caused him to miss training.
The training was taken care of by being made up at other times under the supervision of his company commander.
The company commander when he finished felt that he had completed the prescribed course satisfactorily and that the telephone calls,
the passes did not interfere with his training otherwise he wouldn't have given him superior. I have confidence in his company commander in his family and I believe that that was in his opinion an honor.
The general was any disciplinary action of any character ever needed out against private churn while he was at Fort Decks.
Yes, disciplinary action in the form of reprimand was made on several occasions by his company commander.
Is anything unusual about this?
No, I think that usually it's been a train of the time and there are 16 weeks of training there, those things that he shouldn't and he is reprimanded.
The private churn definitely was reprimanded on several occasions by the company commander for breaches of discipline.
In the general of November 18, I'll ask you if it isn't a fact that you reached the conclusion that private churn would not be given a weekend pass
but that you called Mr. Adams to get a crunch on that fact.
That's correct, Captain.
Were you overruled in your conclusion?
Mayor and eight circumstances in connection with Mr. Lavigne, a member of the committee staff called me and introduced himself.
Then said that he would like very much to have arrangements made to have private churn given a pass to work on important committee business.
From after duty on Thursday, that was the following day, Mr. Lavigne put his call in on a Wednesday's recall.
He wanted private churn to be given a pass on Thursday afternoon after duty until midnight Sunday night.
I told Mr. Lavigne that I would have to check to see what private churn scheduled training scheduled was before I could give him an answer and I told him I've let him know.
I then called Mr. Adams and told Mr. Adams of this request and indicated that in my opinion the pass should not be granted.
I told him that in my opinion, young training, starting his training, to start right in with the rest of the training.
The first training was important.
While it was organizational and administrative, cheaply, and character, I did feel that the pass should be denied.
Mr. Adams said I'd better talk to the secretary about that and I'll call you back.
So he called me back in about ten minutes and asked me some further questions with you toward determining the specific type of training that we classify as pre-cycle training.
And I told him that that was getting acquainted with the squad leaders, men in the squad, orientation by company commanders, the tomb sergeants, a little disciplinary drill, how to weigh the uniform, how to salute, little marching, mocking their clothing when necessary, learning to lay their equipment out, learning to make their best,
getting the housekeeping to fail out of the way before the formal training started on Monday morning.
Mr. Adams called me back right after lunch on that day and said that he had talked to the secretary and the secretary felt that as long as the formal training that is the regular eight-week cycle didn't start until the following Monday, that he thought that private chimes should be given the pass.
Until that period.
And I took those as my instructions, the pass was granted, Mr. Lavigne called back a little bit later in the afternoon and I informed him that private chimes would go on pass.
Still, the disagreement concerning private chimes make it extremely difficult for you.
No, it didn't make it extremely difficult for me.
I felt that the secretary knowing the importance of all training, pre-cycle training as well as any other, the importance of the work of this committee was that the better positions that judge whether the man should go or not than Iowa.
And when those instructions were received, I accepted them wholeheartedly and didn't raise any question about it at all.
As I said, the duties that this man would have performed during that period were organizational and administration and character.
He made that training up and then my opinion it didn't affect his training.
My basic pre-safety is that I don't believe any man should ever be excused from any training for a minute.
So serious and let them go anytime at all.
Darrell, let me ask you this in the light of the orders which you received from Secretary Steven from the madam.
The bearing in mind your knowledge of the work of the McCarthy Committee, did you consider these numerous requests for passes on the head of private chimes to be improper attempts?
For chimes to gain preferential treatment?
Absolutely not.
I felt, definitely, that Mr. Steven wanted to cooperate with this committee.
Certain unfinished business that this young man could assist in cleaning up.
And I was wholeheartedly in the court with everything that the Secretary did.
Now back to this key fiends that on January 10th, and I'll ask you if it isn't a fact.
That private chimes was relieved from that duty because of an administrative error in your command and not because of any action on the part of the McCarthy Committee.
That's correct.
Thank you Mr. Groot. I have just one or two questions.
You stated General Ryan at the end of his eight week training, private chimes, security, raging by his company commander of security.
Yes sir. Could you give us the scale of ratings which prevail there at court, Dixer, that we can determine that the top level, the second top level, or middle class level of artists?
The top level placed him in the upper 20% of his group. The next would be excellent, then satisfactory, then unsatisfactory.
The superior is the top level that a young man can obtain at the end of eight weeks.
Yes sir. I might add there that he had one more rating, he had a character rating of fairs, which is very low.
Top rating being excellent, very good, good, fair, poor, and unknown.
The government commanded this to give him a fair rating in character, those are the two ratings that he would say.
Would it be correct to say that in Europe, in private chimes did not receive any preferential treatment at court Dix, other than the fact that he received these 12 extra passes, which a normal training would not have received.
The answer to that is yes, Senator, and I would also like to add that the term preferential treatment to me is a very disposable term.
It's not democratic and it's un-American, and it's not the policy of the Department of the Army and not the policy of four-six.
And except for these status-friven chimes, it's given no special treatment, shown no favors, and I haven't been able to find out anything that's done for this young man that wasn't done for every other training.
I might add, if you look to me like the sort of fellow who'd be pretty hard to get his preferential treatment on, I think.
That's exactly right, you have to be commendable for that.
I just want to ask you a question. You answered the question yesterday, which I wasn't quite sure I got the answer to because your voice dropped near the end of it.
But you said that you didn't go beyond the committee requests to determine whether they were legitimate or not, or whether these passes were legitimately used, but just your inspector general had developed some skepticism in his mind and has made some study and some report.
And I didn't get your answer to what the results of his report were.
The members of the staff of this committee, in my opinion, were representing the Committee of the United States Senate.
In my mind, there were men of staffers and may help physicians of trust, and I didn't question for a second.
And if they asked for a man to work on the committee business, then he would be used for any other purpose.
They appeared in the New York press after private shine left vortex, allegations of preferential treatment.
In my inspector general was immediately put on the job of trying to run down these allegations.
During his activities, he did try to find out, and he was good by asking other trainees, people at Fort Dick, whether or not they knew what private shine was doing when he was off duty.
We didn't uncover any evidence indicating that he wasn't doing Committee work.
I don't know what he was doing, whether he was doing Committee work or not.
The only thing I know was that he got his pass for that purpose.
What he did when he left the post, I have never had any information indicating what he did.
The only thing I'm trying to put down, we spent one afternoon here, in a lot of pleasant colloquy, about some alleged infectious reports, dealing with the shining of children, and walking the side of the children, and riding in the truck.
I take it then that what was being referred to in newspaper reports should bet that we rather than the inspector general's report.
Yes, the newspaper's reported that he stood by his bunk, talking to his company commander, and there's no regulation against that.
The newspaper man said he went to the post exchange, and had a stake dinner, and came back and fragged about it.
Well, if he had money to pay for the stake, I see no objections to that.
If he wrote in the cab of a truck, cab of a truck is transportation as far as we can stand, and if it's empty and the trainee is fast enough to get in there, it's alright.
And there were many other allegations of assimilination.
There were also some allegations that were relatively serious, that Private Shine had missed bed checks, and that Private Shine had made certain statements in connection with his purpose of Fort Decks, which took a great deal of time.
And effort in our Inspector General's report has now consumed over 500 pages, over 124 witnesses have been insurrogated, and we're trying to get us to bottom of all of these allegations of the peer to the New York press on January 29th.
New York public.
Thank you, sir.
I'm in the comments.
General, you took the position that it was not your responsibility to determine whether he was really needed for committee work.
Yes, sir. It was not your responsibility to determine that, wasn't it?
No, sir, wasn't.
That responsibility of the request was made for this to leave and so forth for that purpose, from that responsibility must be taken by those who made the request.
Yes, it might be anyone that it was the responsibility of the committee, not even the committee staff.
Things that I thought for being done were being done for this committee, and certainly not for making it easy for Private Shine.
Do you know whether it was done with the request for the committee, or simply had to request for the committee staff?
The only request I had was none of the committee staff.
You never had a request, a formal request, formal committee, did you?
No, sir. I had no contact with any member of the committee, except that I met Senator McCouffey once when he arrived at the Senate.
Senator McCouffey is the senator. You referred to as the senator who visited.
Yes, sir. No other member of the committee is from the senator.
Did you ever have a request for many other members of the committee, or an official request from the committee itself, other than a staff member?
So, all of these requests, these, you say you don't want to call them preferences, when just call them taxes and so forth.
Yes, so the only request I received was from the committee staff.
Now, you do not have any way of knowing you say whether you actually put a form for many work while he's off duty.
No, sir, I do not.
Did you, did you infect your general, or whoever made the inspection for you, did he inquire into that?
He did, yes, sir.
Did you have that report?
Yes, sir, I do.
Is it available to those committees?
Has already been made available to the committee, yes.
It has been all of the testimony taken from this report to now in the hands of the committee.
It has been by the committee.
Yes.
Now, you say that this term preferential treatment is very difficult.
Yes, sir.
And the only way to determine whether he actually received preferential treatment or not is to know what it is while he's off duty is.
Yes, sir, I say so.
And if he was off duty and during that period, he was off duty by reason of representations made to you that he was needed for the committee service.
If he was not performing the committee service when he was off duty, then that would constitute an imposition of from you,
would it not another part of the army?
Yes, sir.
And the office did constitute an imposition on you in that his services were actually not needed by the committee,
then he did receive preferential treatment, did he not?
Yes, sir.
Are you satisfied?
Has you anywhere knowing?
Do you know now and can you state the committee whether he actually prefer and needed to commit his services while he was on these passes?
I have no information regarding what he did outside of the fourth day.
So we'll have to get that information from some other source.
Yes.
If you had known that he was not performing committed duties, would you have granted the passes?
I would have immediately communicated with Secretary Steven and advised him of that fact and informed him that I was stopping the passage.
Yes, sir.
So, do those general you acted upon the instructions of Secretary Steven's all the way through and this matter did you not?
The responsibility, however, was mine.
I'm responsible for the commanding general's, the fourth text for everything that goes on within the reservation.
But is it not true that it was the Secretary, the Army, who first contacted you or contacted you through his counsel, Mr. Adams,
to apply you of the arrangements that had been made for private shine to have passes, what would not have appeared with his training?
Yes, sir.
So this whole idea was initiated by a higher authority than you by the Secretary's Army.
Is that not true?
Yes, sir.
And you, under the simply as commanding general, under whom private shine was saving, and you'll command you simply under the two to cooperate with the Secretary's Army and whatever arrangements or whatever agreement.
He had with the committee or members of the staff with the committee with respect to making private shine available for the committee.
Yes, sir.
I believe you have explained why you stopped the passage at one time.
I believe that is all.
The presentation is temporarily awaiting the committee table under rejection.
You have ten minutes.
General, you made reference to some statement that Mr. Cohn had made to Lieutenant, as a Blunk, Lieutenant Bloss.
Yes.
If he, will he be a company commander?
No, you're eight.
My eight.
You're eight.
And how did that come about?
Private shine was detailed for the kitchen belief on January 10th.
And on January 9th, Mr. Cohn called up and talked to Lieutenant Bloss and said that some people at Fort Dex have been very cooperative.
But he felt that Colonel Ringler, Lieutenant Miller, had made it very difficult for Private Shine.
Lieutenant Miller being the company commander.
Lieutenant Miller, who is the company commander, the official lieutenant.
Yes, sir.
And that, he had a long memory and he wasn't going to forget their names.
And Lieutenant Brown indicated that he forget their names.
And Lieutenant Brown indicated.